My take on the brief is -Taking the structured practice of programming through a unstructuring process of deconstruction. 
What do WE want from our algorithms? We use it as a tool to make sense of the world around us by putting nature into step by step logic, we use it to write a set of instructions which is objective enough to be understood and worked upon universally, and over years it has also evolved into a language representing the culture and human understanding. Unlike cultural languages evolved over centuries within smaller and larger sects, where a sentence, a word or even a sound can have different meanings, a programming language is comparatively objective. Although, it is understood that words have a meaning only when placed in a cultural context. With algorithmic language, logic drives the language as a universal medium such that there is lesser diversity in its understanding. My take on this project is to understand how we influence algorithms and how algorithms influence us. And, to find out how algorithms shape our culture, decisions and behaviors and at the same time how we are shaping it. Although the focus driven by my understanding as of now, is towards the implications of algorithms, but algorithms as a language in making meaning, conversations and sense, explored through the course will help expand this focus. 
As mentioned in the brief, the semantics, syntax the language structure builds an understanding of the intended information. Hence, while democratizing algorithms, the algorithmic language as well could evolve into a language reflecting its meaning and making sense of the information it holds. What are these gaps and overlaps, in the cultural and logical traits, of a language? Especially, I want to understand how their syntax differs and changes while moving from high level to low-level language.

If algorithms are the language for a shared understanding of logic, in how many different ways are we still deciphering it. It has built a base for automation. A tool for human ease and reducing human error. But in this process, it also mechanizes human responses and constraints meaning-making by providing a single right output. Hence, what would be subjectivity mean for automation?



## Reflection 1 
 
Week 1: | Class Introduction | Algorithms around Us | "What Algorithms Want?" chapter 1 | Oribaka

Algorithms are a set of instructions, each discrete in nature, which on repeated n number of times takes us closer to the intended solution. Algorithms can also be seen as evident patterns. Algorithms can be a logical representation of the universe. Or an abstraction between a problem and a solution. For example, the way we count cash- highest domination to the lowest domination, traffic signals, or even blockchain management. Algorithms interpreted from cultural surroundings have cultural traces instilled in them. Hence, algorithms built within one culture is problematic in a place of a different culture. Universally accepted language of algorithms have different structural formations based on the writer/programmer.

*What algorithms want-*
Algorithmic language starting from binary code, build pathways in the brain to make new connections. This language develops functionality until the software becomes a part of the hardware. Language and meaning in a different context could also appear as codes and magic. Until the language develops a meaning, it is a code and, until the meaning has a language, it is magic. Myth as well is sold as magic. Where these procedural assurances are meanings trying to be developed by human curiosity and imagination than nature and language. Words are codes that change identity. Words exist but the meaning is shaped when placed in a cultural context, becoming linguistic machines. Humanity has understood that collectively we can also make the world not just describe it using language. These meanings, structured and abstracted using curiosity and intuition, call it something that leads us to make language and also developing the skill of making languages. We have critical languages- news, abstract languages- emoji, computer languages, fiction. These give magical powers to symbols and meaning to apply themselves differently in different contexts. The algorithmic language is a development bridging gap between 'reality and representation' making a 'computational shadow' of reality. Such as the golden ratio, a biological expression of mathematical figures. Logical order, grammar and symbolic vocabulary underlie in the understanding of the universe. Hence, computation is also the cultural shadow of the reality made with the long formation of logical thinking. Myth and reason is what we can know and think respectively. Language defines the world or enacts the world in our minds and algorithms compile assemblages of abstractions, processes and people to enact theoretical ideas in pragmatic instructions. The gap between the two is the implementation.

Oribaka- The crease of the paper.
The challenge was to create a sound only language for origami instructions. Similar to any language, the learning of origami in oribaka is still multimodal, representative and instructed. But further instructions are delivered only through sound. 
Origami is a game of mind and body coordination. Taking the visual away, any distraction in the body or the mind, could and does confuse the user. Thus visual instructions help the user to follow but do not leave the brain capacity between orientation, seeing and applying to actually learn. The instruction set makes people constantly navigate between paper and instruction book. A voice-only limited sound language puts more focus on making. And the simplifying of the language by using the reproduction of signs and symbols exhibiting similarity and relativity as we tried to apply in oribaka, helps to learn. Hence, the language we built is intended to be fun and recitable.  Although, a language for origami should be one which is reproductive but also explorative and customizable which we ended up cutting down in our model. Origami as a practice is the art of making through learning and exploration. 


## Reflection 2

Week 2: | Structuring the language | Testing the Language | Insights | "What Algorithms Want?" chapter 2 

*Oribaka Cntd.-*
One is to design restricted to a context and one is to design that fits every context. Designing the language of oribaka, we arrived at a similar decision to be made. On having decided on the sounds and labels of the folds, we had to expand the language to account for complexity as the user progresses in the level of difficulty in origami. The syntax was decided to have punctuation marks as halts to represent a single word (instruction) within the sentence (an entire origami piece). The difficulty here rose as each word become larger with complexity to be pronounced and recited altogether. We tried exhibiting the same instruction in different ways. Hence an algorithm can have various ways of instructing a function. But it was realized that some are more usable/user-friendly than the others. 

On testing the language, it was understood that what makes people learn origami is origami itself. The hidden pattern of folding a small sheet of paper was revealed because of this language. The learning section was straightforward with no mixing ups and overload. It was also important to structure the learning that way. Folds, Actions and Positions. The most dangerous element was orientation. It was realized the quicker the instructions and given, less time there is to change the orientation, even if by mistake. But for that, the language must be memorized. On testing amongst ourselves, it did succeed as we had inevitably learned that language after spending two whole days on it. But to the first time users, we provided an instruction set it refers to. This again brings back the problem of diverted attention between the origami paper and instruction set causing changes in orientation. The insight here was also that we didn’t have the means for error prevention and course correction. While programming these can just be added further as functions keeping check or as extensions in the program to alert if such cases arrive. But, to apply these in a simple language, requires restructuring of the language itself.  


*What Algorithms Want?-*
Snowcrash is a game where a Sumerian is on an excavation mission. The Excavated stones have magical signs and symbols. Although a Sumerian myth, it is very easy to identify the parallels between the magical stones and functioning algorithms. Excavating logic from the deepest parts of the brain, to find a set of operating instructions which when together make something happen. The game is a virtual aspect of reality, its code and its metaphor is reality. A hacker, an excavator in a cultural context is seen as one who performs interventions with technological skill, idealistic thinking and culture disobeyance. Deciphering reality away from its cultural meanings into a logical structure only decipherable by other hackers all creating intervention in the world. The word hacker has come to become a metaphor for the people implicated to be hackers. Is its source code or sorcery? One always questions if the code is benefitting or is witchcraft on the society making things happen away from the common agreements of the society. Computation is susceptible to be labeled as mystical where the medium through which the plot propagates is the mystical part. But on the other hand, a hacker is mainly interpreting reality through computation, source code, procedural languages, hacks and tricks. Lately, computation is more thinkable and tangible than distant. With cell phones in everyone's hands, for example, the 90% cell phone penetration in India with the digital India movement, computation has renamed itself to be a tool for mass communication, a social good tool and a means to being heard. In fact, a lot of us have become intimate with this computation. Trusting it to make us meet our partners, a channel for confidential communication, banking, etc. The faith that computation holds is seen godly. But how do we keep a check on it, question it, when we are scared of it? This it is important to live with machines without worshiping them. It is merely a procedural language that exists between the mind and in the world. Such that, we now can interact with the world and our environment. Language is an intellectual technology. But to take control it is important for everyone to define it. If no word for green, how do we perceive green? it is difficult to articulate an idea sometimes. And amidst not democratizing this language, we are losing out on a lasrge amount of intellectual technology and instead biasing interpretation. The power of language is to structure and prioritize experience. Codes are also bodies of knowledge. They are technical entities independent of their own human practitioners, but operating through the medium of culture being a vehicle or a tool of algorithms. The role of humanity is the methodology of critical thinking and algorithmic thinking which is required to understand the complexity of the intersection between computation and culture, the world and the human. Thus, algorithms stitch theories from all- mythical, computational and cultural spaces. Personifying code as a cathedral is a definition in similar terms. A Cathedral is a physical and spiritual structure. It also represents invisibility of access to religion as is to code. A cathedral is a space for collective belief, a structure that embodies a framework of understanding about the world- visible and invisible. At the same time, we downsize effort and work as efficiency due to these algorithms. All the while forgetting the effort and work put by humans for and against it. As David Berlinsky says, "we have replaced a cathedral that already existed. We wanted a universal language for the exchange of knowledge but what we have now is another cathedral claiming to do all the rational work on our behalf". Bringing us back to the faith we are putting into these algorithms. How do we thus create algorithms for humans and their culture?


*--- Notes to Myself ---*

cathedral of computation. by Ian Bougust.
computational culture- metaphors- code as structure. ex-architecture, portals, etc. depersonify software, rejecting agency in software like buildings where only engineers and users can enter. cathedral as a metaphor for code. turing's cathedral, cathedral and the bazar. raymond suggesting open bazar model instead of the top down approach of the cathedral. "softwares and cathedrals are the same. first we build them and then we pray." belief rather than bits. cathedral is a physical and spiritual structure.it also represents invisiblity of access to religion as is to code. A cathedral is a space for collective belief, a structure that embodies a framework of understanding about the world- visible and invisible. we have developed a relationship of faith with algorithms that help us through our day to day lives. We downsize effort and work as efficiency of the algorithms all the while forgetting the effort and work put by humans for and against it. we have replaced a cathedral that already existed. we wanted a universal language for exchange of knowledge but what we have now is another cathedral claiming to do all the rational work on our behalf. david berlinsky- universal computation and universal design. 
information and meaning- like turing machine, what the machine does and what imoact it has on human mind. facebook's mission ststement is to give people the power to make the world more open and connected. propriotary commerce claming to make the world transparent. bougust claimimg computation and new theology. 

What is an algorithm?

## Personal Bio

I am a Human-Centered Design student, majoring in User Experience Design from Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology.

Finding inspiration from my everyday explorations, I direct my passionate, imaginative and critical mind towards work that ensures delight and makes a change. I back my design approach with user studies, technology, business understanding and problem-solving. I harness the systems identified and set-up by our societies to work with the interdependent liability and assets to turn the tables to a usable and effective result.

My work shows diversified skills and knowledge in the UX process, various UX and interaction design methods, inclusive design, emotional design and Design Research. With my skills in visual communication and information visualization for print and for the web, I have built campaigns, prototypes, and digital user interfaces. I delve into algorithmic problem solving and zooming into micro-interactions when dealing with the complex as well as behavior dependent systems.

I use my developing, programming and prototyping skills in HTML, CSS, javascript, C++, Python, etc. to have a better understanding of my design, test them and further be able to execute them when needed. I use Adobe Illustrator, Indesign, Dreamweaver, XD, sketch, etc. to as tools to supplement my process.

Sustainability, Navigation, Road Traffic Flow, National Development, Emotional Design,
Micro-Interactions, Algorithmic Thinking and Programming, Women’s Rights and Children’s Welfare are some of the topics that keep me motivated.

## Reflection 3

Week 3: | Derrida | Deconstruction | Language | "What Algorithms Want?" chapter 3-5


Derrida, the founder of deconstruction. For a biography video on Derrida, he says, “a biography never completes a story”. People, themselves or others, writing one’s story, is written such that it looks consistent, readable, hence, it looks like a story. According to him, one is born, lives and dies. The rest is all anecdotes. This is because a philosopher must present himself as an empirical being, not opinionating anything. I understand this is so that the philosophy holds true regardless of the philosopher. A person only tells their deepest secrets, if they confide in somebody. Hence, biographies are always incomplete. The nature of deconstruction is that it is not neutral. And he asks, “What is it that is addressing you?”. If its the eye, then isn’t the eye you? Hands and eyes are merely tools for recognition, whereas the eye substitutes ‘vision’. It is difficult to deconstruct in language when you are deconstructing language and when deconstruction is a literary concept. For example, as he explains, there is no narcissism, only narcissists in relation to the other. On trying to understand this, I believe that we may be able to deconstruct the relation between two things in deconstructing the two things in relation to the other. The division between ‘who’ and ‘what’ is in ‘being’ or ‘something’. Do we remember someone or something of someone? If we find someone with the same set of somethings, do we say we love that someone? I tried this myself- Forgiveness. To forgive is to understand. To understand the empathize. To empathize is to do. If we do the same this, forgiveness is hypocrisy. And if we don’t understand, we cannot forgive. Hence, how is guilty in Jain, forgiven by the others? Sight and Speech. To speak is not to see. Because we speak, we see what we are thinking of speaking. Thus, a man does not make a philosopher, a philosopher makes a man.
Deconstruction 1 Deconstruction is a thought process. It is an evasive dance that can be understood as governance. There is a consciousness in structuralism. To deconstruct structure is to deconstruct our thoughts and its origin. We can only see something when we are outside of it. For example, the virtual vertical axis of the Eiffel Tower. From the top we see the axis of combination. when outside of the tower, no matter where the presence of the Eiffel Tower prevails. The full presence. Wallace Stevens says, “The center limits free play”. Thus inside a structure is Freeplay. Levi Strauss explains, there is no signified without the signifier. When there is no difference between one to the other, the other becomes a metaphysical object, where there is a concept without a physical concept. A signifying chain is a self extending, irreversibly liner and always progressing signifier that takes place in time. Derrida explains, ‘The nature of being is structuralism’ and the ‘emergence from between two things is genisis’. He says something happens but not something new. It has always been there. An event is the history of the concept of a structure that has happened. One we have gained consciousness about. Structurality is anything that has a center, enabling the causal principle, where it causes and limits free play inside the structure. An author, in within a structure but also outside creating it, where he/she successively appeals to the center- Metaphysica. We say god created man, but man created god when he gained consciousness. I have a question here- Can one only affect free play from the inside the structure? Then we can say man exists within and outside the structure, where man created the structure by defining it and also affected it from the inside. So it goes with god, explaining the cultural phenomenon of god existing outside and inside our world.
Language and thought are the same as the signifier and the signified according to Susaurian Philosophy. Language is sound over a script. The voice here is writing- as it unfolds in space, leaving “traces”. This system of difference can only be observed in language by writing. And a difference is perceived momentarily and once when it occurs and not as continual signs. Signs are unfolding of a speech. Whereas in computation, symbols are the links between the visible and the invisible of a language. For example, a button. Thus language is the meaning and the experience. Metaphors, a controlling nature for language. Meaning is deeply embedded in the metaphor. For example, prescribed number of steps -> problem solving -> software -> algorithm. It is a logic of substituity. This software has become a cultural metaphor for algorithms. algorithms are the functioning between code and implementation as well as between software and experience. For example, the progress bar.
What Algorithms Want? Algorithms are culture machines as we last discussed. Algorithms today have become ‘black boxes’ not only to the user but as well to the programmer. Black boxes are a set of algorithms taking in input and giving out an output. Day by day they are becoming cultural black boxes, affecting and shaping the world we live in without us understanding it. Algorithms from Algorism- the process of calculating hindi arabic numerals, for algorism or art of computer programming- positionality of notation of algorisms, thus, the decimal point. Today we understand Algorithms as an instruction set to manipulate data or a way to get any intended desired output. They are repeatable practical solutions to a problem or the pragmatic definition- just a method for solving a problem. The alterations, shortcuts, hacks in programs to alter the output are cultural doings that are not actually detected by the algorithms. For example, visiting the same restaurant twice to use two different zomato gold between two people. We live in the world of algorithmic programs, where their definition can be altered in many ways. Where now culturally, we perform tacit negotiations to adapt ourselves to the algorithms. For example, talking to google assistant. Or make a trend out of hashtags where they are actually a function of make words computer-readable. Behavioral Economics. Algorithms have become ways to capitalize on systemic inequities, to broaden cultural systems, for legal, ethical and perceived reality, according to math rules, with assumptions that are shielded from public view. For example, the Amazons automated recruiting algorithm, that ended up being as sexist as the recruitment data provided to it. The Rhetoric is the hard claim of computation, when it is just a matter of time and applied science that it can break many of our cultural systems, like electoral voting, etc. Hence, the good-enough definition of pragmatists affects everyday life and needs to be altered. Because the system is the function between rules and programs as well as behavior and computation. Abstraction which is the algorithm is the quest for an answer. The curiosity of humankind to find answers beyond physical evidence. Abstraction is the generalization through feedback after deconstruction and an algorithm is the embodied nature of information through abstraction.


## Ideation- Visual Abstract

Consumer-
the consumers are the ones facing exploitation faced by persuasive algorithms and behavioral economics for instilling consumerism and elevating buys/usage patterns of the consumers. 1

Are algorithms diverting routes to accommodate stores and businesses? How would algorithms for intent-driven navigation look like for a small space in Bangalore ? Can the algorithm for navigation be the interface for navigation suggestions? and if so how would the user be able to customize that? 2

Designer-
A designer uses and could use algorithms for analyzing patterns in the behaviour of the people. Economic, Environmental and social crises could be solved by finding patterns that allows the design to be targeting for social good seamlessly much as behavioral economics. 3

Policymaker-
creating algorithms to understand patterns in taxation and loopholes in taxation. Or just a tool to understand how can wealth be divided even in the extreme crisis that we are in now. Algorithm to represent the ESG impact on the world through a single investment in a company. For example- coca-cola. 4
Algorithms for insolvency?

prospective consumers-
An alternate algorithm that consumers and prospective consumers can use to undo the algorithm nudges influencing our decisions. 1
prospective consumers someone unaware or ones being born into the world of algorithms need to differentiate the world for the intercepted/influenced picture of the world. 1
An alternative algorithm for ad-funded earning. 5

*stakeholder capitalism, showing deterioration through color detection, building alternative navigation algorithm*

1. Revenue generation algorithm capitalizing from advertisements.
2. Producing subjective decision making by adding parameters onto objective algorithms- Stock Market.
3. Intent-based navigation algorithm.
4. Behavior mapping tool for designers
5. Differentiating between personal and influenced decision making while using persuasive algorithms- Behavioral economics and algorithms study for consumerism.
6. Exaggerating online behavior nudging to offline spaces.
7. Deconstructing automation by understanding its constituents- subjective behavior patterns and objective algorithms.


## Reflection 4

Week 4: | Museum Visit | Tippity Tap | Designing for Play: Cass Holman | Structure, Sign, and Play

*Meusium Visit* </break>

Visiting vishveshwarya science museum, I understood one major thing. There is a big learning curve and process to process understanding to explain. It requires delving deep into details and then abstraction, such that the concept is relatable, tangible, imaginable, registerable and captivating. The process of doing such in the museum is quite profound. They start with deciding the theme, following with a storyline around a concept of the theme, further deciding the interactive elements of the exhibits.  For Example, THEME- Biology, STORYLINE- the process of digestion, Interactive- catalyst action using tubes and balls. The exhibits initially used to be mechanical, then electrical exhibits were added, electronic elements, digital elements, and further on they are now working towards adding exhibits using emerging technology like VR, AR, etc. One interesting point quoted by Mr. Sajoo Baskaran Sir was that "The intended learning outcome is depended on the intended interaction. An important thing here is, even if the interaction fails, the learning should not fail." To gauge attention, the start of a storyline is decided such that it is something known to the user and connects with the user. For example- A weighing scale to show the volume of water in the body. I realized that the exhibits showcase not just concepts but also time and culture- working of a steam engine to a diesel engine. 

We went on to observe the interactions, discussions, experiments of the visitors with the exhibits. The discussion that takes place in the space, promotes learning among visitors, especially seen among families with children or school students.
Families that come together demonstrate, teach and show each other. There is also an element of who figures out the mechanism or the concept first. In fact, the projects that are more reflective, personal or singular gauge more personal attention. Ont little thing that caught my attention was the platform around every exhibit for the accessibility of the children. This to me is as important as the exhibit itself. Children are quick to figure out the mechanism, not through knowledge but through exploration. Having no preconceived notions about an affordance allows for diverse interactions. Children showed more concentration and exploration but less attention. This focus or attraction makes them figure out the mechanism.

*Tippity Tap*
The science of thinking: Illusions.  
Tippity tap is an experiment that explains how we fill in the gaps or find patterns in things that we see and hear based on some notion during perception. continuing that concept of understanding versus explaining, a similar pattern is seen here where delayed notes while tapping a sound is not explained as a break or a continuing note. This is also similar to Derrida's saying about, filling in the gaps to produce a story while writing biographies. A similar pattern is seen with backward messages with songs. These messages are seen to more powerfully hit the listeners that the literal forward meaning or messages of the song. The answer to this is filling in the gaps. Because of the detached perception of the backward message from the singer, the listeners find these messages as strong thoughts emerging from their own heads. It’s fundamental that once a memory is made, there is no going back. Faces in Places - finding face patterns in our surroundings. This is the fundamental cognitive error. Although there are a million ways of interpretation, because of our general expectation, we make one single interpretation that we can ever unhear or unsee after its made.

*Designing for Play*    
Cass Holman deconstructs play to understand its various parameters and what they inform. Exploration, learning, structure, support, and others can have various learning interpretations in play. Through her projects like 'Geemo', 'Architecture against death', 'Rigamajig' and many more she explains how strictures and ease- not engaging and boring our play has become. Our play these days is no different than algorithms- selected a few inputs and outputs. Many don’t even provoke questioning and exploration, the building blocks of play, creation, and innovation.

*Structure, Sign and Play* 
With presence, there is an emergency, rather a discovery of a centered structure, within which there is freeplay, restricted inside the boundary. Freeplay being ironic here creates stress within the structure, or anxiety. The centre that is inside and outside the structure is also the beginning and the end. What defines a centre is balance, orientation and organization. Although, organisation limits freeplay, orientation, and organisation preserves freeplay inside the balanced structure. The presence being somewhere in between begging and the end,  beginning-presence defines the certainty of the existence and presence-end presents anxiousness. For example, A lion is the centre of a wildlife sanctuary but actually it's the forest department. 

## Reflection 5

Week 5: | Suggestions on writing reflections | Dissapointment | Planning | Calendar | Research Direction | Strcture, Sign and Play page 2

*Suggestions*  
By reading Apoorva's reflections, I understood that her writing reflects the way she speaks. Just like how apoorva misses and jumps words while speaking, her writing does the same. Moreover Apoorva is loosing her spirit. As she talks she continuously makes connections by finding parallels in diffrent scenarios. But, on writing the same way, these gaps confuse the reader and break the link. Thus, I asked Apoorva to look at Kolb's Model of Reflection or 'experiential learning'. The four stages of writing a crisp reflection are- *Concrete Experience-* Here you should pen down you physical experiences. What did you see? What did you hear? What did you feel at that time? What did you think? Next, *Reflective Observation-* Reflecting on the physical experiences, now you start questioning what worked, what did not work and why do you think so, the pre and post incidents that causes and are caused by the sitauation, etc. Further on, *Abstract conceptualization-* Keeping the physical experience aside and focusing on the reflection, you frame your understanding and how you would approach it?. Lastly, *Active Experiementation-* Building upon the new strategies, you must now test them. Then these become your new concrete experiences to which you can further reflect and conceptualize. At this point I ask myself a question- Should Apoorva focus on the first two or three steps? Apoorva thinks that this will help her but she will take time to find a balance between applying this and retaining her writing style which comes naturally to her. She also feels a bit of lack in confidence as she suddenly does not know if her writing is even good enough. She used to be very confident about being able to write. Although, she will take this as a learning and try apply this on top of her writing methods not instead. 

*Dissapointment*  
The kids missed class on monday because they went to a horse farm. I mean I do know that horses are important for the fourthcoming humanity-centered design, but I reckon it is not more impotant than algorithms, philosophy or majorly them not taking their last semester seriously. I know that apoorva knows that I know this. But yet, I need some 'being responsible' from Apoorva. Although, Apoorva and others had a very calm time, working amidst lawns, gardens, a pool and 250 horses. They learnt that every skill needs practice and not giving up, just like riding horses. They also came back refreshed and motivated to work as I saw messages from the farm about deconstruction -"A lion thinks it is the centre of a wildlife sanctuary, but it is actually the forest department". Now I know that she wrote this in the last reflection as well, becausse clearly she went to the horse farm multiple times. 

*Planning and Calendar*  
On tuesday I finally was able to sit everyone down and organize all their work. This made Apoorva realize how much she has able to finish even though she feels completely lost not knowing what to do this semester. But little that she knows, I have it all panned out. If she continuous follwoing my direction and keep the pace of the class moving, this could be her best project ever. This i think she knows. Apoorva also sometimes feels she is little bit dyslexic as she gets really confused while spelling continuous(continueous) or even dislecxic. This is a secret and no one should know. She was always told that she didnt learn her spelling well. Recently she has started to question. Moving on, after the organization project, Apoorva had only the process documentation left, which she just couldnt get herself to finish. Till date it stands incomplete. 
Afer the organization project comes the planning project. I sat everyone down to start mapping the days we have left until the seminar and set up hard deadlines. Apoorva was just not having it and i just couldnt understand why. I think it is to do with the history of planning her schedules which never seem to work. Rather micro-planning timelines trigger anxeity. Hence she has kept her timeline broad. Knowing her she takes responsibility of her work if one lets her do it and I trust her to finish whatever she expects from her self. At this point Apoorva looks very unstable but she is not. She is strong. And this reflection is very emotional. All are facts.

*Research Direction*  
On wednesday, Apoorva started working on her research. At this point the research is informal to understand the positives and contradictions that are present in the multiple optional directions she has. I am stating those down below-

1. Revenue generation algorithm capitalizing from advertisements.
2. Producing subjective decision making by adding parameters onto objective algorithms- Stock Market.
3. Intent-based navigation algorithm.
4. Behavior mapping tool for designers
5. Differentiating between personal and influenced decision making while using persuasive algorithms- Behavioral economics and algorithms study for consumerism.
6. Exaggerating online behavior nudging to offline spaces.
7. Deconstructing automation by understanding its constituents- subjective behavior patterns and objective algorithms.

Once she finds a hook to one direction or a combined direction, she will start frame her research questions and start her formal secondary research. She will also plan if she requires primary reserach and if yes how should she conduct it. 

She read one page of structure, sign, and symbols as she had planned- 
A presence, fundamentally forming a centered structure is being called a rupture. For this birth of a thought, denoting presence, also denoting rupture, to be regestered or seen, it needs to be repeated. This is likewise a centre's substituition, repetition, permutation and transformation, where presence or an unfolding in time- now called a rupture is caused. Only when there is an unfolding of time, we can compare and establish that a rupture or a presesnse has occured. But for a presence to occur, a centre outside the structure need to be the cause. Hence the centre inside the structure has a serrogate, or a substitution outside the structure that has always existed. This here the centre inside the struction which was seen a locus, fixed and everlasting is actually a fuction of the centre that is outside the struction. A fuction of presense of the center outside. Where the center outside is also a fuction of a centre outside its own structure. Like forest department is the centre of a wildlife sanctuary, but it is still governed by the ministry reponsible for ecology. Or the one who demarcated the boundry of the wildlife sanctuary of build infrastructure around it. Although, still the centre inside the structure is the signified of the signifier structure. Similar to how the language signified discourse.
